(CNN) - The recanvass of the Kentucky governor's race results is officially underway. In a fight to keep his job, Republican Gov. Matt Bevin requested that all 120 counties recheck results from last Tuesday's election, which showed him trailing Democratic state Attorney General Andy Beshear by more than 5,000 votes. The counties certified the vote last Friday, confirming Beshear's lead. Results from the recanvass are expected Thursday afternoon, according to Lillie Ruschell, communications director for the Kentucky secretary of state. The office expects to make an announcement once the recanvass is complete. Kentucky law does not allow for a recount in a gubernatorial general election, but a campaign may request a recanvass of the votes with the secretary of state. There is no threshold or margin requirement for a recanvass, which began Thursday morning. "It's not likely to change a lot numerically, but you have to go through this as a first step. to make sure the numbers that were written down and communicated are accurate," Bevin told CNN affiliate WKYT. He said his office is also preparing for Beshear to assume the governorship. "There are very good odds, he could be the next governor, no question about it," Bevin said. "Right now, he is numerically ahead and would seemingly be the next governor, and if that is corroborated and held up through this process, I'll be his number one cheerleader." Unlike a standard recount of votes, a recanvass is a reprint of the receipts from voting machines to check for reporting or clerical errors. After ballots are scanned, the machine tabulates those votes and prints out a receipt with the total. During the recanvass, those receipts will be reprinted and checked again to make sure they were reported properly. It's not uncommon for some clerical errors to occur during the initial vote tabulation. Representatives from both political parties and the media are allowed to be present for the recanvass. Should Bevin want to pursue further action, he would have to cite specific evidence with the state's election board after they have certified the results on November 25. The state's General Assembly could then authorize a board of eight randomly-selected legislators to review the evidence and hear depositions. That board would make a recommendation to the full Assembly for possible further action. Asked if he is considering further action beyond a recanvass, Bevin demurred. "I'm not at this point. I have to figure out at this point, let's take it one day at a time," he said. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage). Go to the full CNN experience.