Washington (CNN) - Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, two of President Donald Trump's senior advisers, threw a book party on the evening of the first public impeachment hearings. It was an invite-only celebration for Ivanka Trump's older brother, Don Jr., in honor of his new book, "Triggered" which debuted as No. 1 on The New York Times bestselling list. The party, which appeared to be for 50 or so guests, was held at the Top of the Hay, a posh, penthouse-level event space that typically rents for thousands of dollars, at the Hay-Adams Hotel, overlooking the White House. The guests, according to Instagram photos, included White House acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney, as well as two new members of the White House anti-impeachment messaging team, former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi and former Treasury Department spokesman Tony Sayegh. In one photograph from the party, Bondi and State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus flank Ivanka Trump, all three coincidentally wearing pink suits. Also present for the festivities was Ohio Rep. Jim Jordan, who just hours before the party was one of the featured Republican lawmakers at the impeachment hearings, grilling the top US diplomat in Kiev, Ambassador Bill Taylor. Other staunch Trump supporters partook in the festivities feting Trump Jr., including Republican Reps. Kevin McCarthy, Matt Gaetz and Mark Meadows, Sebastian Gorka, Sen. Rand Paul, Sean Spicer, Jerry Falwell Jr., Linda McMahon and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross. Kushner played host at the event, toasting his brother-in-law, saying of his new book,"(it's) driving everyone crazy, which is Don's specialty," in videos posted by Gorka and Falwell Jr. Trump Jr., with girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle by his side, responded: "You cannot turn off the genes, so I just gotta embrace what I am and go with it and it's worked out well for me." In his remarks, Kushner noted that life in Washington for he and his wife, Ivanka, has been unusual. "For Ivanka and myself, coming down to Washington it's been definitely a unique experience. We joke that we don't get paid for of this job, but having the friendship of all of you and getting the opportunity to meet all of you makes it an incredibly worthwhile experience," he said. Kushner also acknowledged "Triggered" hitting No. 1 on The New York Times bestseller list, something the President tweeted about late Wednesday night as well. Was just told that my son's book, "Triggered," is Number One on The New York Times Bestseller List. Congratulations Don!," Trump tweeted. © 2019 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Listen to CNN (low-bandwidth usage). Go to the full CNN experience.